DingaLingaLing is what 12-year-old Craig called the little service bell that sits on the kitchen countertop in his home. The mischievous boy loves to ring the bell at random times every day, just to annoy and irritate his mom Dione, "It's fun to annoy people!" Craig said with a giggle.
Ironically, although Dione is now the primary victim of DingaLingaLing, it was she who decided to bring it across continents to their new home in Toronto when she moved from Karachi with her husband and two sons last year, because the 70-year-old bell originally belonged to her family. "It was one of those few older family treasures that we were able to bring because we did not ship stuff to Canada. We just brought stuff in our luggage and this was small enough to bring. I think it was more a token of that life and the generations before me."
The bell has been accompanying Dione since her childhood, always sitting in the kitchen quietly, listening to the family sharing their daily stories and laughter. Later when she got married, she decided to bring it along with her to her husband's home, again leaving it on the kitchen counter as a ritual. As the family grew bigger and busier with kids and pets, the bell finally caught someone's attention. "A very naughty dog called Rusty kept going and ringing it all the time, constantly fiddling with it," Dione recalled, "I think at one point my younger son Craig took the bell away from it. That's when Craig started calling the service bell DingaLingaLing because Rusty kept slapping it and making noises."
Contrasting to being fiddled by dogs and kids, the service bell once lived a glorious life. It was originally bought by Dione's great-grandfather in the early 1950s and placed on the counter of their family-run tobacco shop in Karachi to greet customers. "The store was famous for tobacco because my great-grandfather and grandfather would mix special tobacco blends by themselves," said Dione. The shop attracted a lot of customers including famous people at that time, for example, the founder of Pakistan Mohammed Ali Jinnah, and her sister Fatima Jinnah, as well as many government officials and foreign diplomats. "So a lot of famous people, I am assuming, had touched this bell when they came into the store. It's quite a famous bell from that perspective." With the decline in tobacco demand and sales, Dione's father decided to shut the business down in the mid-70s, and that was when the service bell moved to their family home and started living a comparatively basic life.
Looking at the rusty bell now sitting in her kitchen, it reminds Dione of the days they had before and the family linkage, "for me, it's a symbol of legacy, family business, and stuff we did as a family over three generations. The era when the bell was actually used, was an era that was much more multicultural, compared to how it is right now." She continued, "It reminds me that in a country where we were minorities – as a Christian family – the fact that we were able to have a business like that and be successful at it. It reminds me that in a country like Pakistan, minorities can actually survive, and we did for many many years."

Written by Crystal Chan