This ivory elephant miniature is as small as a dime, but it holds priceless value to the Smith family. Not only because it is at least 80 years old, but it also represents a beloved family member who died too soon to serve the country in WWII.
Telling us this story of the ivory elephant today is the younger generation from the Smith family, Jado. The miniature belonged to his great uncle Kenneth Manning Smith, who was the eldest brother of Jado's grandfather. Kenneth was enlisted for WWII in 1940 when he was 18 years old. Before he went to the front, his mother gave him this ivory elephant as a lucky charm.
Unfortunately, the talisman did not bring Kenneth home safely. In July 1943, when he was traveling on the battleship Devis with 300 other Canadian and British soldiers on their way to Sicily, Italy for an operation, the ship was hit by a German torpedo and sank. Kenneth was injured badly in the attack. "Great uncle always has this talisman on him. In his dying moment, he gave it to his commanding officer. He said 'It's really important that you get this back home to my mother, because it's a promise that I'm gonna come home.' So only a piece of him came back in the form of this talisman." said Jado. Kenneth passed away on Jul 5, 1943, just 9 days before his 21st birthday.
Kenneth was the eldest son among four siblings, when he passed, Jado's grandfather was just 7 years old. "From what I have heard spoken of my great uncle, he was like the typical older brother that was looked up to, and the parents are always attached to their eldest son," Jado recalled, "My grandfather did not talk a whole ton about it, it might have been a painful subject even years and years later. But I can understand, it's a painful resonance that we can all think of. When you have someone who was so young, a foundational member of the family passed away at such a young age. I think the fact that my grandfather did not really want to talk about it, speaks volumes about how tragic a situation that was."
As his grandfather did not talk much about it, Jado only discovered this story of his great uncle and the ivory elephant a few years ago. Since Jado's father has a passion for genealogy, he spent a lot of effort in documenting the stories of their ancestors, "My dad was basically looking for some information on my great uncle. He mentioned in some online posts about my great uncle having a white elephant as a lucky charm that he always carried with him." This was when Jado learned about his great uncle's story.
With no hope of getting any response from the Internet, surprisingly, someone replied, "A British family responded that their grandfather, who had already passed unfortunately, had made friends with a Canadian soldier who always had this white elephant with him and was always talking about it." Jado's father was then able to verify some documents and information regarding Kenneth by corresponding with that family. "It's like a very astronomically small chance that we actually found someone who knows about such a specific element of someone," said Jado.
But he admitted that when he first learned about the connections between the two families, he was not as excited as his dad was, "I think I actually might have rolled my eyes a little bit. But over the years, especially after my grandfather passed, it's the story that I'd like to hold on to because it's kind of like how we keep our ancestors alive with us, their stories and memories." 
Jado now also felt that learning the past of one's own family means so much more, "Regardless of how much you feel you're connected to the past, you are definitely connected to it because it formed who your parents were, and your parents were formed by who their parents were, it's all like one chain link. So understanding what has happened in the lives of your ancestors, you can watch it unfold as a story that leads to you. It's the story about you when you think about it." He added, "and I think it just helps you to be a little more thankful, take your own life less for granted." Inspired by the story of his family, Jado hopes to write a screenplay about the acquaintance of a Canadian and a British soldier, to pass on his great uncle's legacy.